<!--
.. title: March (of the) Books, 2009
.. date: 2009-04-03 23:19:36
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

***British Food: An Extraordinary Thousand Years of 
History*** __by Colin Spencer__. Yes, I know what you're 
thinking because every damn person who saw this book on
my shelf had some stupid joke about English food. But
guess what? English food was really cool and interesting
until, I dunno, the Reformation or something. The reason
that I only know about the cool and interesting part, and
not how it ended, is that this book, while packed with
information, was a bit dry, and in the end I gave up on it.  

If you want or need to know what the British ate, and why,
(and how they got it, prepared it and served it) this is
the book for you, but if you're looking for a juicy read
I would hold out for *Eating for England* by Nigel Slater, 
which I will write up as soon as I read it.

Between *Ishmael* and *British Food*, that was two books in
a row I abandoned, making me doubt my ability to, I dunno,
read, so I lobbed myself a nice easy ball with ***Howl's 
Moving Castle*** __by Diana Wynne Jones__. My brother 
recommended Diana Wynne Jones, and you know I have this
thing about reading books instead of watching movies
that are based on them, so this was a shoo-in. And it
was a lovely read, light and refreshing and escapist, like
a grapefruit sorbet. Nice characters, good story, very
satisfying. We'll probably get the movie for the girls
sometime.

***The Schools Our Children Deserve: Moving Beyond 
Traditional Classrooms and "Tougher Standards"*** 
__by Alfie Kohn__. I continue my romp through the 
Alfie Kohn canon with a book which makes me think that
Cordelia is currently experiencing the high point of
her education. This is a book about how education ought
to be, with Kohn's usual rigorous research and wry, 
readable style. 

I'm glad I read it because I think it's
important to know how things are when they're at their
best, but I think it will cause me some grief to realize
how far the TDSB is from the ideal.  Although we're a
damn sight closer than some of the lunatic school boards
in America! Someone on Twitter posted about her kindergartener
failing the entrance test for a gifted public school.
Kindergartener, entrance test, and gifted public school
are words that should never appear in the same sentence.
(Except that one.)  In fact the phrase "gifted public
school" shouldn't exist all by itself. But anyway.
If you have a kid in school, you should read this. If you're
a teacher, you should read this. I think that pretty 
much covers everyone who reads this blog, some people
twice.

Also I think it might be the only book I've ever read
with scare quotes in the title.

***How to Make a Garden: The 7 Essential Steps for the 
Canadian Gardener*** __by Marjorie Harris__. If there's
any Canadian gardener who needs essential steps, it's
me.  I have 60 by 20 feet of garden (that's just the
backyard) which I have been staring vacantly at for two years
now, and I have yet to pluck up the courage to do anything
more major than pluck a few weeds and plant a few bulbs.
Fortunately Marjorie Harris knows what to do, and further 
she knows how to tell me how to figure out what to do
for myself. This book is incredibly packed with information:
how to design your garden, prepare and care for your soil,
how to choose plants, how to plant them and how to care for
them once they're planted.  It's larded with lots
of great plant recommendations, and it closes with a
description of what tasks you should do in your garden in
each season. I *need* to own this book.


