<!--
.. title: April and May Books
.. date: 2009-05-17 23:21:30
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

I was given ***Love Monkey*** __by Kyle Smith__ by 
[a friend](http://inquisiturient.blogspot.com/2009/03/march-2009-books-and-movies.html) who hated it. Not sure what this says about my
friends, but I definitely didn't hate this book. It's
your typical 30-something single New Yorker looking for
love book, except the protagonist is a guy instead of
a chick. 

Smith sets up his protagonist, Tom Farrell, as 
a dick&mdash;he's rude to his mother and he's a cartoon-watching,
cereal-for-dinner-eating 
man-boy&mdash;and then redeems him over the course of the book
with self-deprecating honesty and vulnerability,
and with the charming, witty conversations he has with his 
romantic interests, the almost-perfect Julia and the
reliable back-up date Bran.

I found it interesting to get into this
particular man's head. At first I was quite put off by
how self-conscious Farrell is and how he overanalyses
and manipulates situations to suit himself, but then
I realized that I do that too&mdash;we all do.
For example, I had some people over
yesterday, some of my coolest and brightest friends.
We all brought some books that we had enjoyed and
wanted to pass on, and did a big old book swap. One
of the women brought *She's Come Undone* by Wally
Lamb, and she reported that when she chose it her
husband questioned her choice: "Think of your
brand!" he said. We all made fun of that but I 
think we all know what he meant&mdash;you have this
image of yourself that you want to project to other
people, and it
isn't necessarily your whole, honest nitty-gritty
self. You second-guess your impulses, you
debate clothing choices, you carefully curate the 
items in your home. I will admit that the books
on display in my dining room are slightly cooler
and smarter (and prettier) than the books hidden 
upstairs.  Smith unflinchingly documents Farrell's 
management of his brand, which could make him seem 
like a manipulative phony, but his vulnerability and
honesty and wit won me over in the end.  

***Going Solo*** __by Roald Dahl__ is the sequel to
Dahl's childhood memoir, *Boy*. *Going Solo* documents
Dahl's early twenties working for Shell in Tanzania, and in
the Royal Air Force fighting in Greece during
the German invasion. He talks about the people he met
in Africa, the bizarre adventures he had there, his
training as a pilot followed immediately by a
spectacular crash which sent him to hospital for
six months with a horrible head injury. Once he
recovered he was sent right back into the fray,
where he faced ridiculous odds against the German
invasion and was one of the last of the Allied forces
to flee Greece.

The only
slow spot in the book was when Dahl detailed apparently
every training flight he took. (I expect flying
the planes was more interesting than reading about
it.) The rest of the book was exciting and moving.
The best part was when Dahl encountered a
group of Jewish children and the man who was 
protecting them, hiding them in an obscure corner
of Greece. Like so many people, Dahl was oblivious
to the Holocaust and his bafflement about
the Jews' plight was curiously charming. 

The disastrous loss of almost all the men he flew with was 
a reminder of the idiotic nature of war. 
I am both thankful that Dahl made
it through the war alive, and sickened by the thought
of the amazing talents that we will never know about
because they didn't.

I enjoyed *Going Solo* and would recommend it particularly
to boys, although I don't know what age. (I picked it up
at the school library, so obviously someone thinks that kids
twelve or under would like it.) It's exciting
and captures what it was to be a gentleman and adventurer
in an earlier, but still fairly recent, time.

We read ***The Pillars of the Earth*** __ by Ken Follett__ in
Book Club. I gave it a 5, which is the second-lowest
rating I have given a book club book. My first exposure
to this book was back when it came out in '89; it was
panned horribly by a *Globe and Mail* reviewer and one
of the English teachers at my high school used the review
as an example of how to review a book negatively. I don't
recall if I read that review, but ever since high school
I've carried with me the idea that this is not a particularly
good book, and reading it didn't turn that impression around.

My two main problems with the book are that the writing is
clunky and awful, and that it has no particular Literary
Value&mdash;it's not clever. I did quite like
the characters, and the plot was exciting if a little
relentless towards the end. The book was 
well-researched and Follett certainly made sure to put
in plenty of historical detail so all that time doing research
didn't go to waste. I enjoyed all the information about
building and architecture, and I appreciate
Follett's attempts to describe complicated structures
without illustrations. I wish he had put a little more
effort into period-appropriate language; the book is 
thick with anachronistic words and usages. For
example, when writing from the point-of-view of a 
female character he refers to menstruation as having
a period, a usage which didn't appear until the 1800s.
The book would have been richer and more engaging
if the language hadn't seemed so modern.  

In the end *The Pillars of the Earth* didn't engross me.
I read on because I wanted to know what happened, but I
wasn't invested in the characters or absorbed into the 
action.

***Get a Freelance Life: mediabistro.com's Insider Guide to Freelance 
Writing*** __by Margit Feury Ragland__ Yes, you see where
I'm going. I kind of hate how listing the books I've
read provides a kind of window into what I'm thinking 
about, but there doesn't seem to be any real point in
being secretive. 

This is the second book I've read on writing as
a job, so you might suppose that I'm contemplating a
new career direction. Well, maybe I am. If I were this
would be a very helpful book, perhaps even one to buy
and keep around. It has plenty of advice on how to
launch your writing career, how to focus on a speciality,
how to do research, pitching ideas, the editing process
and all the many varieties of editor that can be found
in the wild, and much more besides. The book is aimed 
mainly at magazine and book writing, with only one chapter
about business writing.

I started reading *Make a REAL Living As A Freelance 
Writer: How to Win Top Writing Assignments* by Jenna Glatzer
but right at the beginning of the book she says something
about how you *could* make a living writing for businesses,
but would you rather tell your friends that your byline is
on an article in *People*, or that you wrote the piece of
junk mail they just tore up. Well, first off I'm not a
pathetic celebrity whore, and second not all business 
writing is junk mail. I don't even think I have any friends
who read *People*! (My problem with writing for magazines is
that I don't really read them: I read *Toronto Life*, 
*New Scientist*, *Today's Parent* and *Chirp*. I'd be 
happy to write for any of those publications, but a potential
market of four magazines is
hardly going to put bread on the table.)

Between that, the ALL-CAPS EMPHASIS in the title, and 
some snotty comment about how it's so unprofessional 
to have children crying in the background
when you're on a business call (because God forbid you
should want to *earn a living* after having *reproduced*)
and I just gave up on this book. If I ever develop a 
burning desire to write in magazines for fame and fortune,
I will know where to look for advice.

***Your Five- and Six-Year-Old*** __by the editors of Parents magazine__.
Delphine has gone all weird and cranky lately, so I sought
out books about six-year-olds to see if it's a Thing, and
apparently it's a Thing. Six-year-olds are all neurotic
because they're trying to detach from their parents and become
independent but
at the same time they totally adore us, so that creates this
horrible inner conflict which causes them to be psychotic bitches
half the time and completely adorable, enthusiastic
sweethearts the rest of it. It's exhausting. It's
funny how before you have kids everyone tells you about
the Terrible Twos, but they don't mention the Fucking
Fours or the Psycho Sixes. Two was easy, dude. At least
Two doesn't tell you she hates you.

This was a helpful book, nice and pragmatic. Lots of stuff
about praise, which is kind of anti-Kohn, but then apparently
six-year-olds eat up praise and so much of parenting a
six-year-old is about easing them through this horrible
stage (they're not enjoying it any more than you are) so 
maybe a little judicious praise, or at least unbridled
adoration, would go a long way.

***The Fine Art of Copyediting*** __by Elsie Myers Stainton__
When I mentioned to [Greg Wilson](http://pyre.third-bit.com/) that
I was pondering a writing career he suggested I consider 
editing as well, so I got a couple of copyediting books
out of the library. If you imagine that a book about copyediting
would be quite boring, you'd be right. I think this book
is probably as exciting as a copyediting book could be, and
it was still pretty dry. Stainton does a great job giving
an overview of the copyeditor's job, as well as providing
plenty of concrete reference material such as editor's marks
and grammatical rules. The best part, though, is her 
defense of the art of copyediting, of the importance of it
and the satisfaction of being part of the 
intellectual discourse. 

I learned some things about 
editing which I didn't know: I didn't realize that editors
are responsible for identifying poor reasoning and flawed
arguments, nor did I realize that they are supposed to 
identify racist and sexist language. It's not just 
grammatical nitpicking! (It's other kinds of nitpicking too!)
That made me much more interested
in copyediting, although I'm not sure I am detail-oriented
enough to be a good copyeditor. It's worth
contemplating further.


