<!--
.. title: Books in June and July
.. date: 2009-07-15 22:33:11
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

Dude, I don't even know why I'm doing this blog entry. I'm so 
tired! The girls
and I had an epic day today: we took the streetcar out to Kew Garden
and the girls played on the beach for hours. After that, they played
in the wonderful playground, and after *that*, we walked for
blocks and blocks to have an ice cream with a friend the girls met
on the beach. Then another long (long, long) streetcar ride 
(punctuated by an emergency stop at Starbucks for a bathroom visit)
and finally home at five. I made supper, put the girls to bed,
cleaned the kitchen,
and then rearranged all the furniture which had been disarrayed so
I could paint the wall. Then I reloaded the bookcase, which I had emptied
so I could paint *it*. I must have put on more coats of paint than I realized
because I couldn't fit in all the books I was sure I had taken out of
it, but I finally got all that sorted out and now I am sitting. Hurray!

On to the books.

***The Book of Negroes*** __by Lawrence Hill__ was our book club book,
and it's also the [Canada Reads](http://www.cbc.ca/canadareads/) book
for this year, which means that just about everyone I meet has read
it, or at least heard of it. Now that's cool.

*The Book of Negroes* is the story of Aminata Diallo, an African woman
who was kidnapped into slavery as a child. The book follows her life
through slavery and freedom, and all around the world.  Some of the
people in my book club didn't know about the slave ships and stuff,
and I didn't know about the loyalists in Nova Scotia, the actual
Book of Negroes, and the ships to Liberia. It was an informative read,
and a good yarn, but I didn't get as emotionally engaged as I did
when I read, for example, *A Thousand Spendid Suns* (which just about
killed me). I found Hill kept a distance between the reader and
Diallo, and didn't let me get right into her emotions.

The book is sold as *Someone Knows My Name* in the
US, because apparently "Negro" is just too loaded a word down there.
I think from a marketing standpoint, *The Book of Negroes* is 
a better name, but *Someone Knows My Name* is truer to the themes
in the book. Names are important in this book. But it's a bit
forgettable, marketing-wise.

***

I don't often buy books. I used to buy books a lot, before Delphine
was born and we had a 1-to-1 people-to-jobs ratio. But a couple of weeks
ago Blake and I found ourselves in a bookstore and I decided I was
going to buy myself a book, dammit.  Lucky for me it was coming
up on Father's Day so I checked out the display of Man Books, which
I love. (Why are there no science books in the Mother's Day display?) 
In amongst all the spy books and stuff I saw the bright yellow cover
of ***A Case of Exploding Mangoes*** __by Mohammed Hanif__. The
cover promised a witty, clever thriller. It started off a little
confusing; it's not one of those books that spoon-feeds you every
detail, so you just have to forge ahead and figure out things as you
go along. It's worth it, as the book unfolds into a touching and 
intriguing story of love and revenge. With a great ending.

***A Walk In The Woods*** __by Bill Bryson__. Bill Bryson decided
to walk to Appalachian Trail from Georgia to Maine. Well, not the 
whole thing. But enough to get an idea of what the trail's about, 
and write a book. As usual, it was great Bill Bryson writing, funny
and easy to read. Reading the book inspired me to do (well, think
about doing) a long hike sometime. (I'm trying to figure out how to
go for a long hike without pitching my own tent. I expect that will 
involve paying someone a lot of money.) Reading this book was the next
best thing to actually walking the AT.
 
***Healthy Lunchboxes For Kids*** __by Amanda Grant__. Picked this one
up off the display at the library. Delphine's starting all-day school
and while I'm not expecting her to stay for lunch often, I thought I
could use some ideas. Thinking of something for dinner every day pretty
much saps my food creativity, so I need all the help I can get. This
is a great book, with lots of sandwich and salad ideas, recipes for
scones and cakes and cookies, as well as nutrition information and
advice on how to reduce waste in your kid's lunch. Very useful book and
one I'd consider owning. Although you could tell it's an English 
book; apparently English kids love chutney, will consider eating
dip made with smoked fish, and enjoy sausage sandwiches. No sign
of Marmite, but plenty of nuts.

***50 High Impact, Low-Care Garden Plants*** __by Tracy DiSabato-Aust__.
I ordered this from the library but it's really not my kind of thing.
I like low-care garden plants, but I also like them to be local
to my area, and this book featured lots of foreign plants chosen
because they have spectacular foliage or great flowers. This is a
useful book but not for me.

***A Perfect, Gentle Knight*** __by Kit Pearson__ is a young adult book
about a large family coping with the death of their mother. Sebastian,
Rosalind, Corrie, Orly and Juliet live in a big old house with their
father, a distracted English professor. The older kids take care of the
younger kids while they all try and stay out of the way of the latest
housekeeper. They cope with the loss of their mother by escaping into 
a game of Round Table, playing the roles of knights, squires and pages.
The children struggle with growing out of the game, or not being able
to, and the pressures of having to take care of themselves without
an involved parent. It's a lovely book with beautifully drawn
characters and a satisfying resolution.


