<!--
.. title: April Books
.. date: 2009-04-18 22:44:16
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

***Trust Your Children: Voices Against Censorship in Children's Literature*** __by Mark West (1997)__ is a collection of interviews with children's 
book authors, publishers and librarians on the subject of censorship.
My local library had a display of books on censorship, and the 
title of this seemed in keeping with my parenting philosophy, so
I picked it up.  I'm pretty naive about censorship because I don't really see
the point of it, so I don't think about it much. This book
was a pointed reminder of how some people dislike some ideas
so much they don't even want them to be mentioned. Back in the
seventies and eighties censorship was largely about sex, but
these days (well, when the book was written) more people 
complain about anti-authoritarian themes, books where the kids
best the adults, books where kids question the rules, and even books
where kids are portrayed as unhappy.

Judy Blume got more mentions, if I recall correctly, than any
other author. I'm not surprised by that, but I am saddened;
Judy Blume was a staple of my childhood. I never got The Sex Talk
from my mother, but it was fine because between Judy Blume and
the other books I read I pretty much knew what to do and what
not to do when the time came.

A more subtle issue is that of self-censorship by authors and
publishers. Honestly, what's the use of writing something if
it's just going to be taken out, or result in your book not
being bought by libraries?  One of the solutions, and a flawed
one to be sure, is to market your teen book as an adult book,
which I was surprised to find actually happens. Apparently
Judy Blume's first adult book, wasn't.

This is a valuable compendium of perspectives, with lots of
history and context. It would be nice to read an updated version
of this book - there are lots of references to the Reagan
administration in the book, and I would love to know how the
Bush and Obama administrations affected censorship of kids' 
books.

***Mindset: The New Psychology of Success*** __by Carol S. 
Dweck, Ph. D. (2006)__. Carol Dweck is a social psychologist who
specialises in motivation, personality and development.  Her
mindset theory is hot in democratic parenting circles, and
it deals a death blow to the idea that you have to constantly
praise your children for any and all achievements. I was 
very glad to hear this behaviour has been discredited because
I hate hearing parents constantly chirp, "good sharing!", "good 
swinging!", "good falling down!". (Unfortunately, most people
don't seem to have heard that praising sucks, but I'm trying
to spread the word.) As you might guess, Alfie Kohn 
refers to Dweck's work in his *Punished by Rewards*, so I thought
I might as well read this book to get the full story straight
from the horse's mouth.

Dweck's argument is that everyone walks around with one of two
mindsets: the fixed mindset wherein you believe that everyone
is born with a fixed set of talents and abilities which will
remain constant for life, and the growth mindset
wherein you believe that those talents you are born with are
just the beginning; everything you do can be improved by 
study and practice. If you have a fixed mindset, you believe
that you are what you are, and so your main motivation is to
prove that what you are is fabulous. If you have a growth
mindset you believe that you can always get better, so you
don't have to prove anything, you just have to figure out
what needs work and get on with it. Or not: it's your life!

The book discusses how mindset applies in business, in sports,
in romance, and in parenting. It's nicely written for a
non-scientific audience, leavened by plenty of anecdotes, 
some of which are about Carol Dweck's own journey from fixed
mindset to growth mindset. The book also offered some concrete
advice on how to change your own mindset, and how to help
your children grow up with a growth mindset.

I think understanding the two mindsets is important to anyone
who wants to understand their own mind and motivation, and reading
this book is probably the best and most direct way to learn about
them. You could probably safely skip the chapters on business or
sports or parenting if they don't apply to you.

***new day revolution*** __by Sam Davidson and Stephen Moseley (2007)__
is a book about how easy it is to make the world better, written, I assume,
to convince those who might otherwise not bother to lift a finger to
help out. And lifting a finger is about as much as this book asks:
it proposes such strenuous tasks as "call someone you haven't spoken
to lately", "learn your barista's name", or "watch a documentary
instead of a blockbuster".  They have a laudatory profile of a woman
who gave up the use of her car... for *one whole day*. This book
sets the bar so low that I'm fairly sure that anyone who would
be interested in it would already have done the
calibre of world-improvement activities they suggest. If you need
the advice in this book, you wouldn't bother to pick it up.

Also there was a spelling mistake on the second page.  Pff.



