<!--
.. title: This Is the Last of Them: Books in December
.. date: 2009-12-26 23:37:03
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

A while ago I read ***The Ten Year Nap*** __by Meg Wolitzer__, 
for book club, but I forgot to write it down and therefore
didn't blog about it at the time.  It's 
about a handful of New York mothers who variously
work, don't work, volunteer, don't volunteer, bake, don't bake,
have great marriages or disappointing ones. It's about the
choices women make about work and life, and about how you
sometimes find you've made life-changing choices without
really knowing it at the time.

Unfortunately nothing happens in the first 92 pages of
this book. There are chapters and chapters and chapters 
of character development and backstory until you wish
you could step into the book with a handgun just to make
something happen. Finally something happens, there's a couple
of chapters of action, and the book ends. It's all a
bit boring and I probably wouldn't have finished it, if
it weren't for the book club. Ironically I didn't 
end up going to the book club meeting, but I bet it
was a good one. We always have more fun talking about
books we didn't like, and despite the slowness of the
story, this book provided plenty of discussion fodder for
a group of urban mothers.

***Heat Wave*** is a book "by" __Richard Castle__, the fictional
protagonist of the TV series *Castle*. He's a well-connected
mystery writer, played by Nathan Fillion, who shadows a sexy 
New York cop (Stana Katic) for research.
The book is about a magazine writer who shadows a sexy New York
cop for research. It was very disconcerting to read a book
written by a fictional character, about a second-order 
fictional character who was clearly based on the first-order
fictional character (who in turn is played by an actor who I follow
on Twitter, providing yet another layer of reality/unreality
confoundment). But besides that it was a clever and
funny mystery very much in keeping with the TV show. 

Another torturous read courtesy of the book club (it's
been a bad year): ***Autobiography 
of Santa Claus*** __by Jeff Guinn__ is a history of Santa Claus
written as an autobiography, from the character's origins
as a child named Nicolas who would be a bishop and later a saint,
all the way to the portly elf we know today. Along the way
Guinn explains how Santa manages to make all the toys and get
all the way around the world so fast. He might explain some
other stuff, but I stopped reading around the time Santa
Claus convinced Queen Isabella to sponsor Christopher 
Columbus's search for a better route to India. The book is
full of such Forrest Gumpian connections. The funny thing
is, all the people that old St Nick befriends, including King
Arthur, and Attila the Hun, share the same 
early-21st century belief system as Santa (and, I imagine,
most of the readers of this book). 

I love Christmas and I love Santa Claus&mdash;well, I don't mind
him&mdash;but this book is simple-minded glurge. I would enjoy
a real history of Santa Claus: how his story has changed
throughout history, and what the changes mean in the context of
their time. This is not that book.


