<!--
.. title: So many books
.. date: 2010-07-27 22:22:07
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

It doesn't seem to matter how much other stuff I have going on, I always
have time to read. Don't have time to blog, don't have time to work, 
definitely don't have time to houseclean&mdash;still have time to
read.

***Science, Sense and Nonsense*** __by Joe Schwarcz__ is a collection of
commentaries on chemistry in everyday life, with a side of fraud-spotting
advice. The book covers antioxidants, trans fats, historical alternatives 
to rubber, and a wealth of other topics serious and amusing.

***The Devil's Arithmetic*** __by Jane Yolen__ is a young adult book
about a modern girl who, bored with her family Seder, is transported back
in time to 1941 Poland. I guess maybe the only thing worse than being a
Jew in Poland in 1941 is being a Jew in Poland in 1941 who knows the future.
She and her entire village are sent to a concentration camp where they
fight to survive and to retain their humanity. This book has won a heap
of awards (and I just found out it was made into a movie with Kirsten
Dunst and Brittany Murphy) and it is a wonderful story about the importance
of remembering.

I read ***The Root Cellar*** __by Janet Lunn__ out loud to Delphine.
It's another time travel book, about a girl who is left alone when
her grandmother dies. She is packed off to live with relatives in rural
Ontario and is lonely and miserable until she discovers that the 
root cellar takes her back in time to the 1860s, where she makes friends
and feels more at home than in the present. Her twin challenges are to
track down a friend who doesn't return from the American civil war (in
the past) and to find a place for herself in her new family (in the
present). I loved this book when
I was a child, and Delphine liked it this time around, as did I.

***Shakespeare: The World as a Stage*** __by Bill Bryson__ is a
short biography of Shakespeare&mdash;short because we don't really know
much about the playwright. In addition to what little we do know, 
Bryson covers disproved (or unlikely)
theories and myths. As always, readable and informative.

***The History of Love*** __by Nicole Krauss__ was a book club book.
It's about old man who feels like he is disappearing; his long-lost
son, a famous novelist; a teenage girl named Alma whose mother is
translating a book which turns out was written by... well, you'll have
to read it yourself. It's one of those books where the stories go
along in parallel and you have to try and figure out how they're connected
before the end when the author ties everything together with a big
bow. It was a lovely book; I enjoyed reading it, although in book
club we decided you have to read it in big chunks or you'll get 
too confused.

***The Unfinished Angel*** __by Sharon Creech__ is a... young adult?
Middle grade? I never know&mdash;although I'll have to figure it out pretty
soon because I'm helping a friend with her middle-grade novel this fall&mdash;
Anyway, it's a book about an angel whose quiet life in a tower is 
interrupted by the arrival of a girl who changes everything in the
village. The book is written in the childlike voice of the angel, which
sounds a little cringe-y, but Sharon Creech is a phenomenal writer and
she makes it work. This is only a short book and it goes quickly, but 
it's well worth reading.


