<!--
.. title: Books for the Beginning of 2010
.. date: 2010-03-05 22:53:35
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

***Twelve Books That Changed the World*** __by Melvyn Bragg__ is
a book that introduces itself. I believe it's a
tie-in book to a TV series, the kind of TV series that could
only be produced in England. The books range from the
St James Bible to Mary Woolstonecraft's *A Vindication of the 
Rights of Woman* and, curiously, *Rules of Association
Football*. Each book is described, put into context, and Bragg
makes his arguments for why it belongs in this list. This is
a great introduction to some seminal written works, but also
a brisk and effective overview of some high points of our society's history.

***Further Under the Duvet*** __by Marian Keyes__ was recommended
to me by someone on Twitter (I think it was 
<a href="http://www.twitter.com/flossieteacake">FlossieTeacake</a>)
after a discussion of villa-itis, or the fear that you are going
to run out of bread while staying at a French villa. (I have
a chronic case of villa-itis which is villa-independent.) The book
is a collection of personal essays and short stories. Keyes is an Irish
writer with an extraordinary Cinderella story of going
from abject alcoholism to fame and riches as a writer. The story
is told in the book, along with essays on various topics including
the joy of writing
a makeup column (free samples!), air-guitar championships, shopping
and plenty of chocolate. Funny and sweet.

***Positive Discipline*** __by Dr. Jane Nelsen__ is yet
another positive/democratic/whatever parenting book. I don't know
why I keep reading them, since I more-or-less know what I'm doing
by now, but it's good to be reminded, and I do pick up different
ideas from the various books. This particular book reminded me
of the importance of family meetings, and reassured me that some
problems (namely chores) will have to be revisited at regular
intervals but are still worth handling democratically. I wouldn't
call this my favourite democratic parenting book&mdash;it's just
not funny enough. But it's worth a look if you need a refresher
(or an introduction to positive parenting) or if you want a new
angle.

***The Gargoyle*** __by Andrew Davidson__ is our first book club book
of the year, and already this year's book club roster is looking better
than last year's. *The Gargoyle* is about a man who gets terribly
burned in a car crash, then meets a mysterious woman with a
bizarre past while he's recovering. It's about love and redemption
and all that good stuff, with a big dose of history. It's beautifully
written and I didn't want it to end.

***The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right*** __by Atul Gawande__.
I have long been a fan of the checklist. I like to-do lists to keep
my days focused, I like lists of things to take places, I like
to record our daily routines in list form so nothing is forgotten.
This book is the validation for my checklist habit: Gawande writes
about how checklists can improve the outcome of extremely complex
projects, such as construction projects, and surgeries. Checklists
are already in use in construction and aviation, and the book centres
on Gawande and his team's attempt to create a checklist to reduce
the number of fatalities as a result of surgeries. It's not a smooth
path, but along the way we learn the kinds of checklists (DO-CONFIRM
and READ-DO), what makes a good checklist (not too much information,
easy to read), what makes a bad checklist (too long), and the
mind-boggling difference that a checklist can make in a process that
everyone involved feels is already going pretty well. (Gawande
uses his own checklist, and at first he thought it wouldn't make
much difference to *his* outcomes. As it turns out, not a week
goes by that the checklist doesn't catch something he would have
missed, and it has even saved at least one life on his watch).

As usual, Gawande is engaging and convincing. This was a great
read as well as a confirmation (and refinement) of my love for
checklists.


