<!--
.. title: 2013 Year in Review
.. date: 2014-01-01 23:32:06
.. author: Amy Brown
-->

I'm writing this a little late, as it's already 2014. I suppose this
way I can be sure I'm not missing anything, as one never knows if 11:42 pm on
December 31 might be the highlight of the year.

Well, it wasn't. But at about that time someone did ask me what the highlight
of 2013 was, and I was stumped. I thought of our trip to Buffalo, but that was
in December; not even a month prior. So to write this post I'm going to have to
look at calendars, to-do lists, photos, old emails... Clearly my own brain
won't suffice.

In January I wrapped up work on <em>Shamans
Among Us</em> with <a href="http://josephpolimeni.com/">Joseph Polimeni</a>. I edited and typeset the book, as well as
designing the cover and overseeing proofreading and website design.  It was
a fascinating book to work on; I learned a tremendous amount.

But after <em>Shamans</em> wrapped I set aside my editing work to join
Greg Wilson at <a href="http://www.software-carpentry.org">Software
Carpentry</a>. That's a big deal, really. It's my first regular, non-freelance
job since Delphine was born. 
It's so nice to be part of a team, to be useful and wanted for
something other than knowing where the clean socks are and what we're having
for dinner.

We all did a lot of travelling this year, mostly by ourselves.
Delphine went to a few Guide camps and week-long sleepover camp in summer, and
Cordelia went to Brownie camp.  Blake went to Pittsburgh, London, Brussels, San
Francisco and Minneapolis, and I went to Portland OR, Boston, and London (but
not at the same time as Blake). The girls and I went to Saskatchewan in June,
and in December we all went to Buffalo, which *sounds* lame but might have been
the best trip of all. 

In June my first-cousin-once-removed Emily came to visit with her boyfriend
Dan. I never met her before (I don't think? I feel like I should know this) so
that was pretty cool, because she's awesome and Dan is too.  The girls loved
them because Emily is from New Zealand and that's pretty much Middle Earth, and
because Dan played Lord of the Rings Risk with them. (Emily was also written up
in the <a
href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/05/22/emily-does-chicago-new-ze_n_3314832.html">Huffington
Post</a>, which is more than pretty much anyone else I know can say.)

This is a pretty uneventful year in review, so I guess 2013 was a pretty
uneventful year. I'm okay with that! I hope 2014 is also uneventful, and with
some interesting trips. And maybe more cats.


