<!--
.. title: On Biking; or There and Back Again.
.. date: 2006-07-31 22:39:00
.. author: Blake Winton
.. tags: biking
-->

<p><a
href="http://bwinton.latte.ca/camera/weblog/BikePics/BalmBeachActualRoute.jpg"><img
src="http://bwinton.latte.ca/camera/weblog/BikePics/BalmBeachActualRouteSmall.jpg"
align="right" /></a>Well, that took a long time.</p>

<p>It would have been a lot shorter if I hadn't made three wrong
turns.  The first was missing the short turn South from Holland
Landing Road onto Bridge Street, and instead going up Bathurst to the
"No Exit" sign.  (I'm very glad I decided to stop when I saw that
sign, since the road got quite a bit worse after that.)  The map I'm
using makes it look like you can just continue along the Holland
Landing Road, and it will turn into the Bridge Street, but you really
do need to jog South.</p>

<p>The second was trying to take the North Simcoe Rail Trail, which
turned out to be much like the Belt Line or the Don Valley Trail, in
that it was unpaved gravel, but worse, in that it was overgrown by
flowers, bushes, and grasses.  It also turned out to not be a
continuous trail, and at one point (between Golf Course Road and
Hendrie Road) I came across an electrified fence, beyond which were
six or seven cows.  Now, there were warnings that some sections of the
trail ran through private property, and because we're not in England,
where there are Right Of Way laws which force people to let travellers
through, some of the owners have decided to disallow access through
their sections.  I'm fine with that.  Of course, since there was no
way around, I had to backtrack to the last road.  The thing that irks
me is that there was no indication that that section of trail was a
dead end, so instead of just cutting around it, I had to waste my time
finding out for myself.  Between that, and the slow pace I had to take
while riding through the weeds, and the many road crossings, which
slowed me down even further, I resolved to stick to paved roads for
the rest of the trip.</p>

<p>The third was the longest inadvertent detour, and most
disheartening of all.  When I was heading out of Elmvale, I thought I
was on Highway 6, which would take me straight to Balm Beach Road, but
I was actually on Highway 27, which, if you don't take the Highway 6
exit, turns to the right, and heads off to Waverley after going up a
huge hill.  A nice couple asked me if I knew where I was, and I had
them convinced for a second that we were all in Wyevale, because how
could I be <i>that</i> far off course?  But no, I was, indeed, that
far off course, and had to backtrack to Highway 6 to continue my
journey.</p>

<p>Between the extra mileage from the wrong turns, and the extra
mileage from trying to avoid hills and traffic by heading up Leslie
instead of up Yonge, and by trying to take the North Simcoe Rail Trail
and the Tiny Trail, I ended up biking 172 km on the way there, making
that my first Imperial Century (107 miles).  (And I'm not just saying
that so that I can have ridden more than <a
href="http://crazybikerchick.blogspot.com/2006/07/my-first-century.html"
>Tanya</a>.)  For comparison, on the way back, starting and ending at
the same points, I only went 131 km (81 miles).</p>

<p>Some more stats:<br />
<table><tr>
<th>&#160;</th><th>There</th><th>Back</th>
</tr><tr>
<td>Top Speed:</td><td>71.2km/h (44.2 mph)</td><td>60.km/h (37.4mph)</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>Average Speed:</td><td>23.7km/h (14.7mph)</td><td>24.6km/h (15.3mph)</td>
</tr></table><br clear="all"/></p>

<p>Next up, some notes on the trip back to Toronto.</p>

