<!--
.. title: It's Been A While.
.. date: 2005-06-03 10:37:00
.. author: Blake Winton
.. tags: biking
-->

<p>And what an interesting time it's been, too.  I'm not entirely sure
why I haven't posted anything here, other than I've been busy at work,
and kind of worn out when I get home.  Well, I'm still busy at work,
but it's early in the day, and I wanted to post a small update before
I started doing my actual job.</p>

<p>First off, I should mention that I got into an accident with a car.
I'm okay, the person in the car is okay, but my mirror left a huge
scratch down the side of her vehicle.  I'm not sure whether she
sideswiped me, or I sideswiped her, (my mirror knocked her passenger
side mirror flat, which sort of indicates that I was in front of her,
but I was passing another cyclist, so I was probably further out in
the lane than I would normally have been,) but either way, it's a
sucky situation.  Supposedly her insurance company would be contacting
my insurance company, but since I don't own a car, I don't have an
insurance company, so in theory they'll be contacting me directly.
But they haven't yet, and I'm not exactly holding my breath waiting by
the phone.</p>

<p>In happier news, it's <a
href="http://www.city.toronto.on.ca/cycling/bikeweek/bikeweek_2005.htm"
>Bike Week</a> in Toronto this week.  Uh,<img
src="http://bwinton.latte.ca/camera/weblog/NewHelmet.jpg"
align="right"/> these next couple of weeks?  I guess it's pretty
excellent that there's too much stuff to fit into a single week, but I
sort of wish that there was more day-to-day stuff happening throughout
the rest of the year.  Things like having bike lanes not be <a
href="http://biketoronto.ca/topic/show/458.htm">less than the minimum
width</a>, or giving tickets to people <a
href="http://www.getoutofthebikelane.com/">parked in the bike
lane</a>.  Still, I've been taking advantage of <a
href="http://www.city.toronto.on.ca/cycling/bikeweek/bwschedule2005.htm">many
of the</a> activites recently, including the "6th Anniversary Doors
Open Toronto Weekend", the "16th Annual Group Commute &amp; Free Pancake
Breakfast" on Monday (Although I didn't get a pancake because the line
was <i>way</i> too long.  Oh, but I did get the free t-shirt.), the
"Coffee and Bagels at Curbside Cycle" on Tuesday, the "Grassroots'
Breakfast and Two-Minute Tune-up" (I didn't get the tune-up, because
there didn't seem to be anyone else getting one, and I didn't want to
ask.  I'm curiously shy sometimes.) on Wednesday, and the "Biking
Breakfast" on Thursday.  I also got a shiny new helmet (pictured to
the right) on Tuesday, both because my previous one was five years old
(Supposedly the foam breaks down after five years or so, and they
become less useful.), and because Bikes on Wheels was having a Bike
Week special where if you gave them your old helmet, you would get 20%
off of a new one.  There are a couple of differences between it and
the helmet I used to wear.  Most noticeably (to me) is the lack of a
brim/visor.  This means that the sun is much more in my eyes than it
was with the old helmet, and forces me to wear sunglasses while
riding, which leads to the second big difference.  With the new helmet
and my shades on, I look far more like a motorcycle cop from the '70s
than I ever have before.  I'm not sure if it's crossing a line for me,
or if I can still go with it, but it's certainly pushing my look in a
direction I never intended it to go.  Fortunately, Amy has promised to
stop me if I ever try to buy a banana-bike, or bell bottoms.</p>

<p>I guess that's it.  I thought I had more to say, but I can't quite
remember what it was, and it's almost 11:00, so I should really be
heading off.</p>

